Specification of the operation DFT (#4404)
openvinotoolkit/openvino: docs/ops/signals/DFT_7.md

## DFT <a name="DFT"></a> {#openvino_docs_ops_signals_DFT_7}

**Versioned name**: *DFT-7*

**Category**: Signal processing

**Short description**: *DFT* layer performs the discrete complex-to-complex Fourier transformation of input tensor by specified dimensions.

**Attributes**:

    No attributes available.

**Inputs**

*   **1**: `data` - Input tensor of type *T* with data for the DFT transformation. Type of elements is any supported floating point type. The last dimension of the input tensor must be equal to 2, i.e. the input tensor shape must have the form `[D_0, D_1, ..., D_{N-1}, 2]`, representing the real and imaginary components of complex numbers in `[:, ..., :, 0]` and in `[:, ..., :, 1]` correspondingly.  Required.

> *   **2**: `axes` - 1D tensor of type *T_IND* specifying dimension indices where DFT is applied, and `axes` is any unordered list of indices of different dimensions of input tensor, e.g. `[0, 4]`, `[4, 0]`, `[4, 2, 1]`, `[1, 2, 3]`. These indices should be non-negative integers from `0` to `rank(data) - 1` inclusively.  Other dimensions do not change. The order of elements in `axes` attribute matters, and mapped directly to elements in the 3d input `signal_size`. Required.

Reviewer: axes can't have the same values in different places, right? Why we don't want to use only sorted array here?

Author: We don't want to use only sorted array, because PyTorch can use unsorted array of axes. See functions `resize_fft_input` (started at https://github.com/pytorch/pytorch/blob/master/aten/src/ATen/native/SpectralOps.cpp#L71) and `canonicalize_fft_shape_and_dim_args` (started at https://github.com/pytorch/pytorch/blob/master/aten/src/ATen/native/SpectralOps.cpp#L190).

> *   **3**: `signal_size` - 1D tensor of type *T_IND* describing signal size with respect to axes from the input `axes`. For any `i in range(0, len(axes))`, if `signal_size[i] == -1`, then DFT is calculated for full size of the axis `axes[i]`. If `signal_size[i] > input_shape[axes[i]]`, then input data are zero-padded with respect to the axis `axes[i]`. Finally, `signal_size[i] < input_shape[axes[i]]`, then input data are trimmed with respect to the axis `axes[i]`. More precisely, if `signal_size[i] < input_shape[axes[i]]`, the slice `0: signal_size[i]` of the axis `axes[i]` is considered. This behaviour is [the same as in PyTorch](https://github.com/pytorch/pytorch/blob/master/aten/src/ATen/native/SpectralOps.cpp#L88). TensorFlow always uses full sizes of transformed axes.  Optional, with default value `[input_shape[a] for a in axes]`.

Reviewer: For any i in range (...) - looks unneccessary in text, I think phrase like "If any signal_size[i] equals -1 ..." is enough here

Author: Fixed.

> *   **3**: `signal_size` - 1D tensor of type *T_IND* describing signal size with respect to axes from the input `axes`. For any `i in range(0, len(axes))`, if `signal_size[i] == -1`, then DFT is calculated for full size of the axis `axes[i]`. If `signal_size[i] > input_shape[axes[i]]`, then input data are zero-padded with respect to the axis `axes[i]`. Finally, `signal_size[i] < input_shape[axes[i]]`, then input data are trimmed with respect to the axis `axes[i]`. More precisely, if `signal_size[i] < input_shape[axes[i]]`, the slice `0: signal_size[i]` of the axis `axes[i]` is considered. This behaviour is [the same as in PyTorch](https://github.com/pytorch/pytorch/blob/master/aten/src/ATen/native/SpectralOps.cpp#L88). TensorFlow always uses full sizes of transformed axes.  Optional, with default value `[input_shape[a] for a in axes]`.

Reviewer: Possibly simpler to use array with -1 values with the same length as axes as default.

Author: In such case, we aren't able to support PyTorch FFT, because PyTorch `signal_size` can contains values `-1`. See https://pytorch.org/docs/stable/fft.html#torch.fft.fftn

Reviewer: Still don't understand why -1 can't be used as default values. Is signal_size[i]=-1 and signal_size[i]=input_shape[axes[i]] different things? Example with -1 in signal_size can help with this item.

> *   **3**: `signal_size` - 1D tensor of type *T_IND* describing signal size with respect to axes from the input `axes`. For any `i in range(0, len(axes))`, if `signal_size[i] == -1`, then DFT is calculated for full size of the axis `axes[i]`. If `signal_size[i] > input_shape[axes[i]]`, then input data are zero-padded with respect to the axis `axes[i]`. Finally, `signal_size[i] < input_shape[axes[i]]`, then input data are trimmed with respect to the axis `axes[i]`. More precisely, if `signal_size[i] < input_shape[axes[i]]`, the slice `0: signal_size[i]` of the axis `axes[i]` is considered. This behaviour is [the same as in PyTorch](https://github.com/pytorch/pytorch/blob/master/aten/src/ATen/native/SpectralOps.cpp#L88). TensorFlow always uses full sizes of transformed axes.  Optional, with default value `[input_shape[a] for a in axes]`.

Reviewer: Add information that signal_size and axes have the same length (if it is true)

Author: Done.

> *   **Note**: The following constraint must be satisfied: `rank(data) >= len(axes) + 1 and input_shape[-1] == 2 and (rank(data) - 1) not in axes`.

Reviewer: I think better to move this note to axes description

Author: Done.

**Outputs**

> *   **1**: Resulting tensor with elements of the same type as input `data` tensor. The shape of the output matches input `data` shape except dimensions mentioned in `axes` input. For other dimensions shape matches sizes from `signal_size` in order specified in `axes`.

Reviewer: Does it mean that we can permute dimensions using order in axes? It is not clear from axes description.

Author: No, we cannot. Written about shape calculation.

**Types**

* *T*: floating point type.

* *T_IND*: `int64` or `int32`.

**Detailed description**: *DFT* performs the discrete Fourier transformation of input tensor with respect to specified axes. Calculations are performed according to the following rules.

> For simplicity, assume that an input tensor `A` has the shape `[B_0, ..., B_{k-1}, M_0, ..., M_{r-1}, 2]`, `axes=[k+1,...,k+r]`, and `signal_size=[S_0,...,S_{r-1}]`.

Reviewer: Looks line axes should be {k, k+1, ...,k+r-1}?

Author: No, axes be any (except an axis `len(input_shape) - 1`). But it is hard to write the formula in the generic case. Before the section `Example`, there is a sentence `Calculations for the generic case of axes and signal sizes are similar.`, about the generic case.

Reviewer: Yes, but in shape you will replace M_i by S_i according axes, right? M_0 is dimension k, not k+1 if we start from 0. So, I expect to see axes={k,...k+r-1} or I am wrong somewhere?

**Attributes**:

    No attributes available.

**Inputs**

*   **1**: `data` - Input tensor of type *T* with data for the DFT transformation. Type of elements is any supported floating point type. The last dimension of the input tensor must be equal to 2, i.e. the input tensor shape must have the form `[D_0, D_1, ..., D_{N-1}, 2]`, representing the real and imaginary components of complex numbers in `[:, ..., :, 0]` and in `[:, ..., :, 1]` correspondingly.  Required.
*   **2**: `axes` - 1D tensor of type *T_IND* specifying dimension indices where DFT is applied, and `axes` is any unordered list of indices of different dimensions of input tensor, e.g. `[0, 4]`, `[4, 0]`, `[4, 2, 1]`, `[1, 2, 3]`. These indices should be non-negative integers from `0` to `rank(data) - 1` inclusively.  Other dimensions do not change. The order of elements in `axes` attribute matters, and mapped directly to elements in the 3d input `signal_size`. Required.
*   **Note**: The following constraint must be satisfied: `rank(data) >= len(axes) + 1 and input_shape[-1] == 2 and (rank(data) - 1) not in axes`.

> *   **3**: `signal_size` - 1D tensor of type *T_IND* describing signal size with respect to axes from the input `axes`. If `signal_size[i] == -1`, then DFT is calculated for full size of the axis `axes[i]`. If `signal_size[i] > input_shape[axes[i]]`, then input data are zero-padded with respect to the axis `axes[i]`. Finally, `signal_size[i] < input_shape[axes[i]]`, then input data are trimmed with respect to the axis `axes[i]`. More precisely, if `signal_size[i] < input_shape[axes[i]]`, the slice `0: signal_size[i]` of the axis `axes[i]` is considered. This behaviour is [the same as in PyTorch](https://github.com/pytorch/pytorch/blob/master/aten/src/ATen/native/SpectralOps.cpp#L88). TensorFlow always uses full sizes of transformed axes. Optional, with default value `[input_shape[a] for a in axes]`.

Reviewer: Still don't understand why -1 can't be used as default values. Is signal_size[i]=-1 and signal_size[i]=input_shape[axes[i]] different things? Example with -1 in signal_size can help with this item.

## DFT <a name="DFT"></a> {#openvino_docs_ops_signals_DFT_7}

**Versioned name**: *DFT-7*

**Category**: Signal processing

> **Short description**: *DFT* layer performs the discrete complex-to-complex Fourier transformation of input tensor by specified dimensions.

Reviewer 2: Change "layer" to "operation"

Author: Fixed.

**Attributes**:

    No attributes available.

**Inputs**

*   **1**: `data` - Input tensor of type *T* with data for the DFT transformation. Type of elements is any supported floating point type. The last dimension of the input tensor must be equal to 2, i.e. the input tensor shape must have the form `[D_0, D_1, ..., D_{N-1}, 2]`, representing the real and imaginary components of complex numbers in `[:, ..., :, 0]` and in `[:, ..., :, 1]` correspondingly.  Required.

> *   **2**: `axes` - 1D tensor of type *T_IND* specifying dimension indices where DFT is applied, and `axes` is any unordered list of indices of different dimensions of input tensor, e.g. `[0, 4]`, `[4, 0]`, `[4, 2, 1]`, `[1, 2, 3]`. These indices should be non-negative integers from `0` to `rank(data) - 1` inclusively.  Other dimensions do not change. The order of elements in `axes` attribute matters, and mapped directly to elements in the 3d input `signal_size`. Required.

Reviewer 2: Let's add a comment that dft cannot be applied other the last dimension (which is equal to 2).

Reviewer 2: And update the text that axes can be in the range  `[0, rank(data) - 2]`.

Author: Such comment have already existed:

> *   **Note**: The following constraint must be satisfied: `rank(data) >= len(axes) + 1 and input_shape[-1] == 2 and (rank(data) - 1) not in axes`.

Author: Fixed range of axes indices.

*   **Note**: The following constraint must be satisfied: `rank(data) >= len(axes) + 1 and input_shape[-1] == 2 and (rank(data) - 1) not in axes`.

> *   **3**: `signal_size` - 1D tensor of type *T_IND* describing signal size with respect to axes from the input `axes`. If `signal_size[i] == -1`, then DFT is calculated for full size of the axis `axes[i]`. If `signal_size[i] > input_shape[axes[i]]`, then input data are zero-padded with respect to the axis `axes[i]`. Finally, `signal_size[i] < input_shape[axes[i]]`, then input data are trimmed with respect to the axis `axes[i]`. More precisely, if `signal_size[i] < input_shape[axes[i]]`, the slice `0: signal_size[i]` of the axis `axes[i]` is considered. This behaviour is [the same as in PyTorch](https://github.com/pytorch/pytorch/blob/master/aten/src/ATen/native/SpectralOps.cpp#L88). TensorFlow always uses full sizes of transformed axes. Optional, with default value `[input_shape[a] for a in axes]`.

Reviewer 2: Please, remove the following sentences: "This behaviour is [the same as in PyTorch](https://github.com/pytorch/pytorch/blob/master/aten/src/ATen/native/SpectralOps.cpp#L88). TensorFlow always uses full sizes of transformed axes". Our specification clearly explains the behaviour.

Author: Done.

> *   **3**: `signal_size` - 1D tensor of type *T_IND* describing signal size with respect to axes from the input `axes`. If `signal_size[i] == -1`, then DFT is calculated for full size of the axis `axes[i]`. If `signal_size[i] > input_shape[axes[i]]`, then input data are zero-padded with respect to the axis `axes[i]`. Finally, `signal_size[i] < input_shape[axes[i]]`, then input data are trimmed with respect to the axis `axes[i]`. More precisely, if `signal_size[i] < input_shape[axes[i]]`, the slice `0: signal_size[i]` of the axis `axes[i]` is considered. This behaviour is [the same as in PyTorch](https://github.com/pytorch/pytorch/blob/master/aten/src/ATen/native/SpectralOps.cpp#L88). TensorFlow always uses full sizes of transformed axes. Optional, with default value `[input_shape[a] for a in axes]`.

Reviewer 2: Please, clarify how padding is applied. Are 0s added at the beginning or at the end of the sequence.

Author: Fixed.

*   **Note**: If the input `signal_size` is specified, then the size of `signal_size` must be the same as the size of `axes`.

**Outputs**

*   **1**: Resulting tensor with elements of the same type as input `data` tensor. The shape of the output is calculated as the following. If the input `signal_size` is not specified, then the shape of output is the same as the shape of `data`. Otherwise, `output_shape[axis] = input_shape[axis]` for `axis not in axes`, and if `signal_size[i] == -1` then `output_shape[axes[i]] = input_shape[axes[i]]`, else `output_shape[axes[i]] = signal_size[i]`.

**Types**

* *T*: floating point type.

> * *T_IND*: `int64` or `int32`.

Reviewer 2: Type of input with "axes" and "signal_size" can be of different data types. So we need "T_IND" and "T_SIZE"

Author: Fixed.

> ## DFT <a name="DFT"></a> {#openvino_docs_ops_signals_DFT_7}

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
## Discrete Fourier Transformation (DFT) <a name="DFT"></a> {#openvino_docs_ops_signals_DFT_7}
```

Author: Fixed.

**Versioned name**: *DFT-7*

**Category**: Signal processing

**Short description**: *DFT* operation performs the discrete complex-to-complex Fourier transformation of input tensor by specified dimensions.

**Attributes**:

    No attributes available.

**Inputs**

> *   **1**: `data` - Input tensor of type *T* with data for the DFT transformation. Type of elements is any supported floating point type. The last dimension of the input tensor must be equal to 2, i.e. the input tensor shape must have the form `[D_0, D_1, ..., D_{N-1}, 2]`, representing the real and imaginary components of complex numbers in `[:, ..., :, 0]` and in `[:, ..., :, 1]` correspondingly.  Required.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
*   **1**: `data` - Input tensor of type *T* with data for the DFT transformation. Type of elements is any supported floating-point type. The last dimension of the input tensor must be equal to 2, that is the input tensor shape must have the form `[D_0, D_1, ..., D_{N-1}, 2]`, representing the real and imaginary components of complex numbers in `[:, ..., :, 0]` and in `[:, ..., :, 1]` correspondingly. Required.
```

Author: Fixed.

> *   **2**: `axes` - 1D tensor of type *T_IND* specifying dimension indices where DFT is applied, and `axes` is any unordered list of indices of different dimensions of input tensor, e.g. `[0, 4]`, `[4, 0]`, `[4, 2, 1]`, `[1, 2, 3]`, `[-3, 0, -2]`. These indices should be integers from `-(r - 1)` to `(r - 2)` inclusively, where `r = rank(data)`. A negative axis `a` is interpreted as an axis `r - 1 + a`. Other dimensions do not change. The order of elements in `axes` attribute matters, and mapped directly to elements in the 3d input `signal_size`. Required.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
*   **2**: `axes` - 1D tensor of type *T_IND* specifying dimension indices where DFT is applied, and `axes` is any unordered list of indices of different dimensions of input tensor, for example, `[0, 4]`, `[4, 0]`, `[4, 2, 1]`, `[1, 2, 3]`, `[-3, 0, -2]`. These indices should be integers from `-(r - 1)` to `(r - 2)` inclusively, where `r = rank(data)`. A negative axis `a` is interpreted as an axis `r - 1 + a`. Other dimensions do not change. The order of elements in `axes` attribute matters, and is mapped directly to elements in the third input `signal_size`. Required.
```

Author: Fixed.

> *   **Note**: The following constraint must be satisfied: `rank(data) >= len(axes) + 1 and input_shape[-1] == 2 and (rank(data) - 1) not in axes and (-1) not in axes`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
*   **NOTE**: The following constraint must be satisfied: `rank(data) >= len(axes) + 1 and input_shape[-1] == 2 and (rank(data) - 1) not in axes and (-1) not in axes`.
```

Author: Fixed.

*   **3**: `signal_size` - 1D tensor of type *T_SIZE* describing signal size with respect to axes from the input `axes`. If `signal_size[i] == -1`, then DFT is calculated for full size of the axis `axes[i]`. If `signal_size[i] > input_shape[: r - 1][axes[i]]`, then input data are zero-padded with respect to the axis `axes[i]` at the end. Finally, `signal_size[i] < input_shape[: r - 1][axes[i]]`, then input data are trimmed with respect to the axis `axes[i]`. More precisely, if `signal_size[i] < input_shape[: r - 1][axes[i]]`, the slice `0: signal_size[i]` of the axis `axes[i]` is considered. Optional, with default value `[input_shape[: r - 1][a] for a in axes]`.

> *   **Note**: If the input `signal_size` is specified, then the size of `signal_size` must be the same as the size of `axes`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
*   **NOTE**: If the input `signal_size` is specified, then the size of `signal_size` must be the same as the size of `axes`.
```

Author: Fixed.

> *   **Note**: If the input `signal_size` is specified, then the size of `signal_size` must be the same as the size of `axes`.

Author: Fixed.

**Outputs**

> *   **1**: Resulting tensor with elements of the same type as input `data` tensor. The shape of the output is calculated as the following. If the input `signal_size` is not specified, then the shape of output is the same as the shape of `data`. Otherwise, `output_shape[axis] = input_shape[axis]` for `axis not in axes`, and if `signal_size[i] == -1` then `output_shape[: r - 1][axes[i]] = input_shape[: r - 1][axes[i]]`, else `output_shape[: r - 1][axes[i]] = signal_size[i]`.

Author: Fixed.

**Types**

> * *T*: floating point type.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* *T*: floating-point type.
```

Author: Fixed.

* *T_IND*: `int64` or `int32`.

* *T_SIZE*: `int64` or `int32`.

**Detailed description**: *DFT* performs the discrete Fourier transformation of input tensor with respect to specified axes. Calculations are performed according to the following rules.

For simplicity, assume that an input tensor `A` has the shape `[B_0, ..., B_{k-1}, M_0, ..., M_{r-1}, 2]`, `axes=[k+1,...,k+r]`, and `signal_size=[S_0,...,S_{r-1}]`.

Let `D` be an input tensor `A`, taking into account the `signal_size`, and, hence, `D` has the shape `[B_0, ..., B_{k-1}, S_0, ..., S_{r-1}, 2]`.

Next, put
\f[X[j_0,\dots,j_{k-1},j_k,\dots,j_{k+r}]=D[j_0,\dots,j_{k-1},j_k,\dots,j_{k+r},0]+iD[j_0,\dots,j_{k-1},j_k,\dots,j_{k+r},1]\f]

> for all indices `j_0,...,j_{k+r}`, where `i` is an imaginary unit, i.e. `X` is a complex tensor.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
for all indices `j_0,...,j_{k+r}`, where `i` is an imaginary unit, that is `X` is a complex tensor.
```

Author: Fixed.

> Then the discrete Fourier transform is the tensor `Y` (the shapes of the tensors `X` and `Y` are the same) such that

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Then the discrete Fourier transform is the tensor `Y` of the same shape as the tensor `X`, such that
```

Author: Fixed.
